If you project this Maven base project, then you can configure Maven to generate and export regular
unit test reports or test report containing good coverage information as well.
Making Maven generate good coverage report is very helpful when you use continuous integration and continuous
deployment tools and those times when you do not use development environment to build your project and
run unit tests.
In this video lesson, we will consider our MAVEN Base Project to be able to export regular test reports
first, and this report will contain information about parsed and failed test methods, but it will
not contain code coverage information.
Yet we will configure our project to export code coverage report in the following lesson.
So to configure our MAVEN project to export a regular unit test report, well, we need to add one additional
plug in to pull maximum file.
So I will open for maximum file scroll and a little bit down to plug in section and to find the plug
in that I need to aren't here I will open maven repository dot com.
Using the search bar on the top.
I will search for Maven.
Sure.
Fire report poignant.
And we'll click on the search button.
The plug in that I'm looking for is number one maven.
Sure, fire report plugging.
So I will open it.
I will copy one of its latest versions and will copy its example code snippet from the MAVEN Tap.
Now I'll go back to my project and I will add this code snippet into plug ins section that is inside
of the build section.
So here I have one plug in right below.
I will add one more plug in and I will need to replace dependency with plug in.
Like this.
All right.
So to make me even execute this plug in during the test phase, you need to add to this plug in one
additional configuration, and this will go to execution section.
So inside of this plug in, I will need to add executions.
Inside of executions, I will need to add one execution and incentive execution.
I'll need to configure phase, which is going to be test phase and one goal which will go into goals
section.
And the name of the girl is a report.
All right.
So with this configuration, we tell Maven that when we run Maven command to execute the test phase,
we want this plug in to execute its code that is called Report.
All right, so this configuration should already make Maven generate an expert regular unit as reported
in the ammo format.
If we execute the test phase, if all unit tests pass, then report will be generated.
But if at least one unit test fails, then unfortunately the report will not be generated.
And to make maven expert test report, even though there is a failing test, we'll need to add one more
configuration.
But this one will need to go into surefire plug in itself.
So right under the version I will add one more configuration and it will go into a configuration section.
The property that I want you to configure is called test failure.
Ignore.
And the volume is true.
Right.
So this configuration should make me even generate this report, even if there is a fairly intense now
sleep bomb example file and I will click on this button here to load maven changes.
So now let's see if we can already generate an expert our test report.
To do that, I will open a terminal window by clicking on this button here.
I need to make sure that I'm in the project root folder.
So files.
Files here I should be able to see pull SML file.
And now I can run maven test or Maven clean test to first clear the target directory and then run the
test phase.
Okay.
So my project is successfully built and if I screw up a little bit.
And I see that there are six tests run and a half zero failures and zero errors.
Now, let's see if we have our HMO report generated as well.
And to find the report, I'll need to look into a target directory of this project so I can use the
least files here.
And then I will see current directory.
I can list files inside of the target directory.
And there I will see a folder that is called site.
Then I can list files inside of that site folder and I will see a sure fire report h html or I can use
find a window and then open this report there.
So the project is called user service.
Inside of user service they have target directory.
And there I will have a new folder that is called site.
And here's our HMO file.
I will double click on this HTML file to open it.
And here is my report in this section that is called Package List.
We'll have a list of packages with test information for each package.
And here we will see the number of tests per package, either any errors that took place and the total
time it took for all test methods to execute.
Then we will have a list of test classes we have at this moment.
Only want this class that is called user service test with six unit tests in it.
And then we will have a list of test methods for each class and how much it took to execute each unit
test.
Now there is a way to make this test report look just a little bit nicer.
And to do that, I will go back to my terminal window and we'll run one more command maven side space
dash capital D and then generate reports equals to false.
Like this.
So if I hit enter now.
They built their successful and this should have added some images and CSF styling to this HTML report
page and make it look nicer.
And if I refresh this page now, we have this report looks a little bit nice.
All right.
So let's continue.
And in the following lecture, we will learn how to configure our MAVEN project to export code coverage
report in demo format as well.